---
layout: default
title: "Candidate Statements for 2013 NAACL Board Elections"
root: ../../
---

h3(#chiang). "David Chiang":http://www.isi.edu/~chiang/

h4. Bio

David Chiang is Research Assistant Professor in the USC Department of Computer Science and Project Leader at the USC Information Sciences Institute. He earned his PhD from the University of Pennsylvania in 2004. He was the local organizer for NAACL HLT 2010 in Los Angeles, and a member of the NAACL executive board in 2011-2012. He has served on the editorial boards of CL, JAIR, and MT Journal, and is an action editor for Transactions of the ACL. He has been an area chair at ACL, EMNLP, and IJCNLP, and publications chair for EMNLP 2009.

h4. Candidacy Statement

I want to see NAACL carry out its mission of supporting NLP research in the Americas better than ever. Things that can improve include: (1) Get universities or research labs interested again in hosting the HLT conference. Combining local and non-local effort is the best way to create a conference that is a great experience for everyone. (2) Continue to reform the reviewing process. For example, it should now be feasible to reduce reviewer load by assigning resubmitted papers the same reviewers (at the program committee's discretion). We should also think creatively about ways of improving both precision and recall in reviewing. (3) Rename the organization with the recursive acronym "NAACL: the chapter in the Americas of the ACL" to accurately represent its scope, and locate a future HLT conference in Latin America.

