---
layout: default
title: "Candidate Statements for 2014 NAACL Board Elections"
root: ../../
---

h3(#ji). "Heng Ji":http://nlp.cs.rpi.edu/hengji.html

h4. Bio

Heng Ji is Edward G. Hamilton Development Chair Associate Professor in Computer Science Department of Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute. She received her Ph.D. in Computer Science from New York University in 2007. Her research interests focus on Cross-source Information Extraction and Knowledge Base Population. She co-organized the NIST TAC Knowledge Base Population task in 2010 and 2011, and served as the Information Extraction area chair for NAACL2012, ACL2013 and EMNLP2013. She received an NSF CAREER award in 2009 and won “AI's 10 to Watch” Award by IEEE Intelligent Systems in 2013. 

h4. Candidacy Statement

I devote a great deal of energy into all of my professional service activities. I always aim for being organized and productive. For example, when I co-organized NIST TAC-KBP tasks in 2010 and 2011, we introduced several new tasks and tripled the number of participants. When I served as an area chair for NAACL12, ACL13 and EMNLP13, I manually assigned each paper to the most qualified reviewers, and read more than half of all submissions myself. I would apply the same level of enthusiasm as a NAACL officer.

There are several concrete improvements, ranging from ambitious to incremental, that I would like to implement if elected to the NAACL Board.
1. Reviewing Improvements
  - (1) Reduce review work load: make the review form and author response form more concise and interactive so reviewers can focus on asking specific questions and reviewing the author's responses.
  - (2) Inspiration measure for paper review: A good paper should contain a good balance of "computational" and "linguistics", influence the work of others, and possibly set a new trend. These measures should be explicitly taken into account during paper review.
2. Select some "Best of NAACL" papers every year and invite the authors to publish their extended versions at a top-tier journal.
3. Create a NAACL summer school that would be co-located with the main conference so graduate, undergraduate and even high school students can attend.
4. Make efforts to help international authors on visa applications.
5. Make the open data/software repository associated with papers more organized by different topics/algorithms. 
6. Add an award for the best presentation. 
7. Extend the NAACL13 Mobile App so it gives personalized recommendations based on the papers you are viewing and/or key phrases/topics.

