---
layout: default
title: "Candidate Statements for 2014 NAACL Board Elections"
root: ../../
---

h3(#post). "Matt Post":http://cs.jhu.edu/~post/

h4. Bio

Matt Post is a Senior Research Scientist at the Human Language Technology Center of Excellence (HLTCOE) at Johns Hopkins University, which he first joined as a postdoctoral researcher working in machine translation. His research interests include machine translation, language modeling, and grammaticality, with syntactic approaches to these tasks serving as a common underlying theme. He received his Ph.D. from the University of Rochester. He has co-organized the Workshop on Statistical Machine Translation for the past two years, and in 2013 served as the NAACL Publications co-chair.

h4. Candidacy Statement

As a member of the NAACL executive committee, my goals would be to (a) increase community efforts towards reproducibility of research and (b) improve the conference management process.

Reproducibility is the cornerstone of good science, and yet it receives far less attention than primary research contributions. This imbalance has contributed to very low reproducibility rates that have been reported in certain scientific fields, and undermines scientific pursuits in a number of ways. Computer scientists are well positioned to make reproducibility easy, but doing so still requires extra work on the part of both the reproducer and the reproducee, which is often unrewarded. While our community has an established habit of sharing code and data, these efforts fall far short of what they should be. As part of keeping our house in order, NAACL should explore and pursue ways to reward efforts in the area of reproducibility.

A point of distinction for our research community is the extensive body of code used to produce our annual proceedings and conference manuals. This has been built up over the years and yields useful, high-quality publications. While improvements are made each year to this codebase and the conference management system that surrounds it (including the recent unified login system for reviewers), there remains a lot of relearning, trial-and-error, redundant effort, and subsequent frustration on the part of each year's conference organizers, reviewers, and submitters. Softconf has been very helpful in this process so far, but there is much more that could be done were someone to give it some time, money, and attention.

