---
layout: default
title: "Candidate Statements for 2013 NAACL Board Elections"
root: ../../
---

h3(#solorio). "Thamar Solorio":http://www.cis.uab.edu/solorio/

h4. Bio

Thamar Solorio is an assistant professor in the Department of Computer and Information Sciences at the University of Alabama at Birmingham. Before joining UAB she was a postdoctoral researcher in the Department of Computer Science at the University of Texas at Dallas. She received her PhD in 2005 from the National Institute of Astrophysics, Optics, and Electronics, in Puebla, Mexico. Her research areas include author profiling and attribution in social media, text reuse detection, analysis of mixed-language data, information extraction in clinical records, and the design of NLP approaches for language assessment that can contribute to early identification of language impairment in children or neurological conditions in adults. She co-chaired the first Young Investigators Workshop for languages of the Americas held in conjunction with NAACL 2010. She served as area chair for ACL in 2011 and 2013, and served as faculty mentor for the ACL Student Research Workshop in 2011. She has been a member of the National System of Researchers (abbreviated SNI in Spanish) since 2010.

h4. Candidacy Statement

NAACL is very welcoming of researchers and practitioners from many different fields who share an interest in language analysis and processing. While I highly value this inclusive environment, I think there is still room for improvement. If elected to the board, I want to push for the implementation of new practices that will allow researchers from vulnerable groups (ethnic, gender, and linguistic minorities, people with different sexual orientation or identity, and people with disabilities) to stay in this field and continue, or begin participating in our yearly conferences. For example, I would like to see that we offer some form of day care arrangements for researchers in need to bring their small children to the conference. Other conferences, such as the Grace Hopper events, offer day care so participants can take full advantage of the conference. Some conferences provide educational material with the conference bag aimed at sensitizing all participants of old fashioned practices that perpetuate an "old-boys's club" culture. I would like our community to have a dialogue about this and seek the adoption of best practices that strive to broaden the diversity of the field. The board meeting this year voted to adopt an anti-harassment policy. I would like to also have a policy that describes how the board will address complaints of this nature that includes clear language about the process and resulting actions.

I would also like to work harder in reaching out to other regions of the Americas that remain underrepresented in our conferences. One idea would be to make sure researchers from these regions are represented in the NAACL board and are involved in the Conference and Program Committees. I also want to ensure we offer continued mentoring service for researchers with little experience writing papers in English, as well as the enhancement and continuation of initiatives like the Emerging Regions fund. There has to be more dialogue between people from those regions and the NAACL board to facilitate understanding and recognition of common goals and opportunities to work together.

