---
layout: default
title: "Minutes for 2015"
root: ../../
---

h2. Program Chair and General Chair Report

* "NAACL 2015 Chairs Report":NAACL2015ChairsReport.pdf (by ...)

h2. Slides from Business Meeting

* "NAACL 2015 Business Meeting":NAACL_2015_business_meeting.pdf (by ...)
* "NAACL 2015 Attendees by Country":2015-NAACL-Attendees-By-Country.pdf
* "NAACL Registration Statistics":2015-NAACL-registration-stats.pdf
* "NAACL 2015 Treasurer Report Presentation":NAACL_Treasurer_Presentation_2015.pdf (Joel Tetreault)

h2. Minutes from NAACL Board Meeting

* Date: May 31, 2015
* Location: NAACL-HLT 2015 in Denver, CO, USA

h3. Attendance

* Emily Bender (Board Member, via Skype)
* Chris Callison-Burch (Past Chair)
* Hal Daumé III (Chair)
* Graeme Hirst (ACL Representative)
* Ed Hovy (Board Member)
* Matt Post (Board Member)
* Joel Tetreault (Treasurer)
* Michael White (Secretary)
* Fei Xia (Board Member, via Skype)
* Priscilla Rasmussen (ACL Business Manager)

h3. Treasurer's Report: Joel

* Joel led discussion of "his report":NAACL_Treasurer_Report_2015.pdf

h3. Overview of NAACL 2015 reports: Hal

* Hal reviewed the "2015Q1 NAACL Report to the ACL":http://aclweb.org/adminwiki/index.php?title=2015Q1_Reports:_NAACL

* The board agreed with Hal's proposed refinement of the best paper policy, as follows: "There will always be awards for at least one of each: best longer paper, best short paper and best student paper.  Up to six runners-up in total will be publicized."

* The anti-harassment policy was reviewed and no changes were recommended.

* **ACTION ITEM** Hal will put together a document to serve as a guide for new board members.

h3. NAACL 2016: Hal

* The preliminary NAACL 2016 dates were reviewed; it appears that will work with the ACL schedule to have NAACL submissions after the new year.

* After a discussion of the merits of the author response period, it was agreed that for NAACL conferences the authors should be shown their preliminary overall scores so they can take these into account when deciding how to respond.

* The lack of local restaurants is likely to be an issue for NAACL 2016.  Setting up some local transport may be an option for lunches; Priscilla suggests waiting until she has done a site visit before making any decisions to address this issue.

h3. Overview of ACL 2017:Hal

h3. Backend in START subcommittee: Matt

h3. NAACL in S.A. subcommittee: Fei

h3. Reviewing models subcommittee: Mike

The committee on reviewing models (Emily Bender, Hal Daumé and Michael White, chair) discussed the following topics by email:

* Reviewer Feedback
** Emily expanded on her candidacy statement where she noted that there is room to improve the way that reviewers' considerable efforts for the NAACL-HLT conference are focused; in particular, a system of incentives to encourage reviewing that is fair, rigorous, and constructive (rather than superficial and/or unnecessarily mean) could include feedback to reviewers by area chairs, co­reviewers and even authors as well as recognition for outstanding reviewing.
** After some discussion it was agreed that authors, co-reviewers and area chairs should be encouraged to numerically rate reviews on a limited number of dimensions (such as thoroughness, insightfulness, fairness, constructiveness) and provide an overall rating.  Naturally authors are apt to have a different perspective from co-reviewers and area chairs so it's important to gather feedback from all parties.
** The limited utility of the author response was briefly mentioned.  If this is kept in future years, author feedback could encourage reviewers to more often update their reviews to reflect consideration of the author response.
** To help preserve feedback anonymity, it was agreed that reviewers should only be shown their ratings averaged across the authors of all reviewed papers along with their ratings averaged across all co-reviewers and senior PC members.
** Hal suggested that we should make it standard NAACL practice for the conference program chairs to ask their SPCs to nominate their best reviewers for recognition at the conference.
** It was agreed that ideally reviewer ratings should be aggregated over all ACL conferences, so that SPCs can take these into account when nominating best reviewers as well as throughout their decision making.  Aggregated ratings should indicate the number of conferences, reviews and ratings they're based on, over what time span.
** To facilitate collection of ratings and tracking them over time, it was agreed that it would make sense to discuss integrating this capability into the START system, with the first step to inquire about costs with softconf.  Ideally NAACL could obtain buy-in from the ACL as a whole, though NAACL could also begin the effort and let ACL join in later.

* Public Reviews
** Hal suggested we consider making reviews of accepted papers public, as NIPS has done, suggesting it can be useful for readers new to the topic area.  He also proposed making the submitted versions of papers public as well.
** Emily expressed hesitation noting that many reviewers might feel obligated to produce more polished reviews and thus be less inclined to agree to review.  She also noted the need for community feedback before taking the step of making submitted papers available.

* Summary Rejects
** Hal suggested we consider allowing SPCs to do summary rejects, perhaps after consideration by a pool of special reviewers, in order to drastically cut down on the number of necessary reviews.  Mike noted that this could enable more careful reviewing of papers that make it past this first cut.
** Emily expressed a concern about unclear criteria for summary rejects and whether this might lead to profiling by e.g. institution or English fluency.

h3. etc.

* etc.

h3. Elections: Mike

* From the NAACL constitution:

bq. Elections shall be conducted annually as follows: the Nominating Committee shall by the first of September preceding the end of a term of office nominate at least one person for each position to be filled, including any necessary new Nominating Committee member. The Secretary shall send to the Chapter Members notice of the nominations by September 15, at the same time requesting additional nominations. Additional nominations, supported by at least three Chapter Members, may be submitted by the fifteenth of October; evidence must be presented that the nominee will serve if elected. If there is more than one nominee for any position, the Secretary shall send ballots for that position to the Members. A majority vote of the ballots received by the fifteenth of December shall determine the results of such contests. Those elected shall take office on the first of January following.

* Hal noted that the nominating committee has begun its work and that he recommends the committee suggest no more than two nominees per position.

* Outgoing members:
** Emily Bender (Board Member)
** Ed Hovy (Board Member)
** Michael White (Secretary)

* Nominating Committee for 2015 elections:
** Chris Callison-Burch
** David Chiang 
** Mona Diab
** Katrin Erk
** Dan Gildea (Chair)
** Julia Hirschberg
** Rebecca Hwa
** Anoop Sarkar

<hr />

h2. Decisions made over email

h3. May 12, 2015

Matt Post reported on the decisions of the Emerging Regions Fund subcommittee as follows.

We received two applications for our "2015 call for funding proposals in emerging regions":../../calls/emerging_regions/2015/index.html. They are both requests for $1,500 and focus on supporting "STIL":http://bracis2015.imd.ufrn.br/events/stil/, the main Brazilian event in NLP. STIL is taking place in Natal, in the northeast of Brazil, on November 4–6. STIL is held joint with BRACIS 2015 (Brazilian Conference on Intelligent Systems), and ENIAC 2015 (Encontro Nacional de Inteligência Artificial e Computacional). We have funded this event in the past.

* The first will fund undergraduate students for the IV Student Workshop on Information and Language Technology (TILic), which will be hosted by the main Brazilian event on NLP &#8212; the X Symposium in Information and Human Language Technology (STIL).

* The second will be used to bring a North American invited speaker to STIL (last time, they brought Mike Riley and Andreas Stolcke). 

We allocated $3,000 for this call. These were the only two responses, and they both look good to us, so Emily and I opted to fund them both.

h3. May 4, 2015

The following three students were selected out of 14 applicants to receive a $2,000 scholarship to attend the 2015 Frederick Jelinek Memorial summer school at the University of Washington in Seattle, Washington (USA) from June 22, 2015 to July 2, 2015.

* Keith Herbert (USA)
* Alberto Manuel Orozco Camacho (MEX)
* Roxana Lafuente (ARG)

The scholarship covers tuition, housing, a full meal plan for the dates of the summer school and approximately $300 towards travel reimbursements.

The selection committee was chaired by Matt Post, who was joined on the committee by Joel Tetreault, Michael White and Fei Xia.  The committee decided to favor advanced undergraduate students in the selection process for whom the scholarship might be expected to have the greatest potential impact on their decision to pursue a careeer in human language technology.

The call for applications and scholarship selections followed an earlier decision by the whole board to direct $6,000 towards these scholarships.  Given the limited funds available and the larger summer shool expenses in comparison to JHU summer schools in previous years, NAACL was unfortunately able to support far fewer students than previously.

h3. March 23, 2015

Kevin Knight agreed to serve as general chair for NAACL 2016 with Ani Nenkova and Owen Rambow as program co-chairs.


h3. February 17, 2015

The NAACL board voted unanimously to approve spending $10k for video recording the 2015 NAACL HLT conference.
