---
layout: post
title: "Final Report of the creation of NAACL"
root: ../../
---

h2. Final Report of the creation of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics


h3. Authors

* Sandra Carberry 
* Eduard Hovy 
* Marilyn Walker

bq. April 2000

h3. Report

In 1997, the ACL Executive tasked Sandra Carberry, Eduard Hovy, and Marilyn Walker to establish a new chapter of the ACL. This chapter would serve the needs of the North American constituency primarily, and temporarily also that of the Latin American members.

The setup committee did the following:

* we established the general process of creating the Chapter
* we held an open meeting at the COLING-98 conference
* we held an open meeting at the ACL-99 conference
* we created a constitution modeled on that of the EACL
* we formed the nomination committee of ourselves and asked for nominees (the slate is included below)
* we determined the members of the new NAACL Exec (placing the people with fewer votes in the future nominating committee, and having us stay on for a year to help with comments and startup)
* we held the election in December 1999, electronically, with help from Drago Radev

The election results were as follows:
* *NAACL chair*: Diane Litman 
* *Secretary*: Claire Cardie 
* *Treasurer*: Barbara Di Eugenio 
* *New Board members*: Ralph Grishman, Martha Palmer, Phil Resnik, Janyce Wiebe 
* *Nominating Committee*: Andy Kehler, Lori Levin, and Daniel Marcu

The new NAACL chapter was officially formed on January 1, 2000, with the following Executive: 

* *NAACL chair*: Diane Litman 
* *Secretary*: Claire Cardie 
* *Treasurer*: Barbara Di Eugenio 
* *New Board members*: Ralph Grishman, Martha Palmer, Phil Resnik, Janyce Wiebe 
* *Nominating Committee*: Andy Kehler, Lori Levin, and Daniel Marcu 
* *Original Setup Members* (one year remaining in term): Sandra Carberry, Eduard Hovy, Marilyn Walker 
* *ACL Secretary-Treasurer* (ex officio): Kathleen McCoy

At that point the NAACL setup committee declared itself dissolved.

This constitutes the final report of its activities.


h3. Election Slate

h4. Chair (choose 1):

* Bob Carpenter, Lucent, http://www.colloquial.com/carp/
* Diane Litman, AT&T Labs Research, http://www.research.att.com/~diane

h4. Secretary (choose 1):

* Claire Cardie, Cornell University, http://www.cs.cornell.edu/Info/People/cardie/
* Jennifer Chu-Carroll, Lucent, http://www.bell-labs.com/user/jencc

h4. Treasurer (choose 1):

* Barbara Di Eugenio, University of Illinois, Chicago, http://www.eecs.uic.edu/~bdieugen
* Owen Rambow, AT&T Labs Research, http://www.research.att.com/~rambow
* Richard Sproat, AT&T Labs Research, http://www.research.att.com/~rws

h4. Board and Nominating Committee for 2001 (choose 4): 

The 4 persons getting the highest votes will be board members. The 3 persons with the next highest votes will form the nominating committee for 2001 (of whom the person with the lowest vote remains on the nominating committee for one year only; the person with the next lowest for two years; and the next lowest three years).

* Ralph Grishman, New York University, http://www.cs.nyu.edu/grishman
* Susan Haller, University of Wisconsin at Parkside, http://www.cs.uwp.edu/staff/haller
* Sanda M. Harabagiu, Southern Methodist University, http://www.seas.smu.edu/~sanda/
* Vasileios Hatzivassiloglou, Columbia University,
* Peter Heeman, Oregon Graduate Institute, http://www.cse.ogi.edu/~heeman/
* Andy Kehler, SRI International, http://www.ai.sri.com/~kehler/
* Lillian Lee, Cornell University, http://www.cs.cornell.edu/home/llee
* Lori Levin, Carnegie Mellon University, http://www.cs.cmu.edu/~lsl
* Daniel Marcu, Information Sciences Institute of USC, http://www.isi.edu/~marcu/
* Susan McRoy, University of Wisconsin at Milwaukee, http://www.cs.uwm.edu/~mcroy
* Boyan Onyshkevych, Department of Defense, no web page publicly available. Dr. Onyshkevych is the author of numerous papers in the area of computational lexical semantics, knowledge-based machine translation, and the representation and computational treatment of non-literal expressions in text. Involvement in major government funding efforts such as the TIPSTER text technology program also characterize his work. He received his PhD from the Carnegie Mellon University Language Technology Institute and currently leads Natural Language Processing research efforts in a Defense Department lab.
* Martha Palmer, University of Pennylvania, http://www.cis.upenn.edu/~mpalmer
* Dragomir Radev, University of Michigan, http://www.si.umich.edu/~radev
* Philip Resnik, University of Maryland, http://umiacs.umd.edu/~resnik/
* Ronnie Smith, East Carolina University, http://www.cs.ecu.edu/faculty/smith/www/smith.html
* Andreas Stolcke, SRI International, http://www.speech.sri.com/people/stolcke/
* Janyce Wiebe, New Mexico State University, http://www.cs.nmsu.edu/~wiebe

