---
layout: post
title: "NAACL Board Elections 2013-2014"
root: ../../
---

Dear NAACL members,

The Nominating Committee for the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics (NAACL) has chosen the following candidates for the open positions on the NAACL board with two year terms beginning January 2013. Additional nominations can be made until November 30th, 2012.

h3. Treasurer (one opening):

* "Joel Tetrault":http://www.cs.rochester.edu/~tetreaul/
  Nuance Communications

* "Michael White":http://www.ling.ohio-state.edu/~mwhite/
  The Ohio State University

h3. Board Member nominees (two openings):

* "Katrin Erk":http://www.katrinerk.com/
  University of Texas at Austin

* "Julia Hirschberg":http://www.cs.columbia.edu/~julia/
  Columbia University

* "Julia Hockenmaier":http://www.cs.uiuc.edu/~juliahmr/
  University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

* "Diana Inkpen":http://www.site.uottawa.ca/~diana/
  University of Ottawa
  
* "Greg Kondrak":http://webdocs.cs.ualberta.ca/~kondrak/
  University of Alberta

* "Ani Nenkova":http://www.cis.upenn.edu/~nenkova/
  University of Pennsylvania

* "Vincent Ng":http://www.hlt.utdallas.edu/~vince/
  University of Texas at Dallas

* "Chris Quirk":http://research.microsoft.com/en-us/people/chrisq/
  Microsoft Research

* "William Schuler":http://www.ling.ohio-state.edu/~schuler/
  The Ohio State University

* "Luke Zettlemoyer":http://homes.cs.washington.edu/~lsz/
  University of Washington

h3. Candidate Statements

All the candidate statements are posted at "www.naacl.org/elections/2013":{{ site.baseurl }}/elections/2013/index.html.

h3. Additional nominations:

Additional nominations can be submitted until November 30th, 2012.  To make a nomination, three or more NAACL members should send email to Anoop Sarkar, the NAACL secretary, expressing support for the nominee and giving evidence that he or she will serve if elected.  (It is recommended that this evidence consist of a forwarded email from the nominee containing a candidate statement, a biographical sketch, homepage URL, and a brief affirmation of intent to serve if elected.) In addition, the nominees for Chair should meet the criteria set out in the NAACL constitution.

h3. Election process:

The voting period will begin once the final slate of candidates and voting instructions are announced (soon after November 30th), and is scheduled to close on December 20th.

Many thanks to the Nominating Committee -- Hal Daume (Chair), Ted Pedersen, Suzanne Stevenson, Chris Brew, Kristina Toutanova, Owen Rambow -- for doing the hard work of putting together an excellent slate of nominees.

For more information about the NAACL, NAACL officer responsibilities, and NAACL election procedures, please see the NAACL home page, www.naacl.org, and the NAACL constitution, which is available there.

Sincerely,

bq. Anoop Sarkar
NAACL Secretary
(anoop __at__ cs.sfu.ca)

