---
layout: default
title: "Candidate Statements for 2013 NAACL Board Elections"
root: ../../
---

h3. "Ani Nenkova":http://www.cis.upenn.edu/~nenkova/

h4. Bio

Ani Nenkova is an assistant professor of computer and information science at the University of Pennsylvania. Her main areas of research are automatic summarization, discourse and text quality. She obtained her PhD in computer science from Columbia University in 2006 and spent a year and a half as a postdoc at Stanford before joining Penn in 2007. 

h4. Candidacy Statement

My goal as a NAACL board member will be to strengthen the sense of community, which I view as a necessity given its continual growth. In particular, I will focus on support for young members and on seeking ways to improve reviewing practices.  In the past, transforming the student session into a doctoral consortium (DC) has proven to be successful for the NAACL environment. I would like to follow up on these changes and establish the DC as a more general place for career mentoring for young researchers, including more structured panels on job search, career planning, and responsibilities as members of a larger research community.  Reviewing is one of these responsibilities, and it is, needless to say, often a controversial topic. Most people have their horror stories about bad reviewers or about their frustrating experience as a reviewer. Easy fixes are not likely to exist to address all problems---best papers have previously been rejected, not so good papers have been accepted by busy distracted reviewers, the same paper has been submitted five times without a single edit between submissions.  Part of the existing discrepancies are due to the lack of a forum where we can discuss the common standards and best practices we would like to adopt and apply as a community. I will work to organize such informal discussion both online and during the NAACL conference.  

