---
layout: default
title: "Candidate Statements for 2013 NAACL Board Elections"
root: ../../
---

h3. "Diana Inkpen":http://www.site.uottawa.ca/~diana/

h4. Bio

Diana Inkpen is an Associate Professor at the University of Ottawa, in the School of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science. She obtained her doctorate in 2003 from the University of Toronto, Department of Computer Science. She has a Masters in Computer Science and Engineering from the Technical University of Cluj-Napoca, Romania. Her research interests include lexical semantics, information retrieval, information extraction, text classification, and natural language generation. She organized the 2010 NAACL workshop on Computational Approaches to Analysis and Generation of Emotion in Text, and two EACL workshops in 2006 and 2012. She was publicity co-chair for the HLT-NAACL 2009 conference. She was program co-chair for several conferences, including the Canadian Conference for Artificial Intelligence AI 2012. 

h4. Candidacy Statement

If elected to the NAACL board, I will support and enhance the current ACL initiatives, by finding ways to strengthen the involvement of the researchers and students from US, Canada, Central America, and South America. I think that the involvement of US researchers is strong at the moment, while more encouragement is needed for Canada and more support is needed for the Central and South America. Also, stronger collaboration between research centres, universities, and companies from these regions is needed, especially now when the industry is open to computational linguistics applications.   Another particular issue that I would like to address is the re-organization of the ACL Wiki repository of resources. At the moment it does not contain many resources and it does not separate them by categories. I propose a separation into corpora / annotated datasets / tools, with cross-links to the index of language-specific resources. I also propose to include the datasets and evaluations tools resulted from the many shared tasks from our field, in order to make the ACL repository a real central access point. 

