---
layout: default
title: "Candidate Statements for 2013 NAACL Board Elections"
root: ../../
---

h3. "Joel Tetrault":http://www.cs.rochester.edu/~tetreaul/

h4. Bio

Joel Tetreault just started a new position at Nuance Communications as a Senior Principal Manager of Core NL in their Silicon Valley Research Lab.  Previously he was a Senior Managing Research Scientist at Educational Testing Service.  His research interests include discourse processing, grammatical error detection, automated essay scoring, anaphora, and dialogue systems.  He received his PhD at the University of Rochester and was a postdoctoral researcher at the University of Pittsburgh before joining ETS. He has co-organized the Building Educational Applications workshop since 2008, served as an Area Chair for NAACL 2010, Session Chairs for NAACL 2010 and 2011, and Exhibits Chair for NAACL 2012.

h4. Candidacy Statement

The NAACL treasurer monitors and reports on the finances of the organization, and provides feedback to the NAACL board on which practices have been successful or not.  The person appointed to this position should have experience in managing budgets and be highly organized.  One of my main duties as a managing research scientist at Educational Testing Service the last three years was managing the budgets for our NLP Initiative as well as individual research projects.  Additionally, I believe my organizational background with co-leading the Building Educational Applications workshop for the last 6 years, and serving as Area, Exhibits and One Minute Madness Chair the last few years at NAACL, as well as maintaining the primary conference calendar for our NLP/CL community at large since 2004 ("http://www.cs.rochester.edu/~tetreaul/conferences.html":http://www.cs.rochester.edu/~tetreaul/conferences.html), make me uniquely qualified for this position.

In addition to the above duties, the Treasurer is an active member of the Board.  Over the last decade, the field of Computational Linguistics has grown considerably: there are more universities and companies with CL groups and researchers, and researchers from all corners of the world attending and submitting to conferences.  With the number of major conferences staying roughly the same year after year, the competitiveness has increased thus putting more pressure on reviewers to provide high quality reviews in a timely fashion.  In my years reviewing and also serving as a chair for different conferences and workshops, many of the same people are repeatedly called upon to provide upwards of 6 and sometimes 10 reviews for a single conference, which is problematic when they are called upon to review for other conferences in the same time frame.  In order to maintain the high quality of NAACL and associated workshops, I will 1) work to increase the number of capable reviewers such that all reviewers have a manageable load at any time, and 2) work to defining standards for reviewing such that papers in different tracks are reviewed in the same manner.

