---
layout: default
title: "Candidate Statements for 2013 NAACL Board Elections"
root: ../../
---

h3. "Vincent Ng":http://www.hlt.utdallas.edu/~vince/

h4. Bio

Vincent Ng is an Associate Professor of Computer Science and a member of the Human Language Technology Research Institute at the University of Texas at Dallas. He obtained his Ph.D. from Cornell University in 2004. He is particularly interested in problems where significant progress could be made by exploiting world knowledge. He has been a regular attendee of NAACL since its first edition in 2000. 

h4. Candidacy Statement

If elected, I will focus my efforts on two issues.  First, I would like to help feature our student researchers and their work by developing a system through which they can easily create their own profiles. This system can be modeled after the ACL Member Portal, but I want it to have better search facilities and provide more flexibility in profile creation. I believe that this system could serve a few purposes: (1) it can help us better keep track of the young researchers of our field, as our community has grown considerably in the past decade; and (2) it may allow recruiters to take a more active role in the recruiting process, by assisting them in more easily identifying and contacting students who are qualified for their full-time/internship positions. I would especially like to advertise this system to related communities, such as bioinformatics and machine learning, where researchers often have projects needing people with linguistic expertise and may be interested working with or hiring the graduates in our community.  Second, I would like to work on some of the issues regarding our annual conference. One such issue concerns the reviewing process: submissions, especially those for which reviewers do not have a unanimous recommendation, are being handled in an inconsistent manner across different areas. It may be helpful to develop specific guidelines for area chairs in making decisions. Jian Su (the Conference Officer of the ACL Exec Board) and I had some preliminary discussion on this issue when area-chairing for a recent ACL conference, and I hope to work with her to make recommendations to the NAACL Exec Committee. Another issue concerns mentoring. NAACL began as a conference primarily for North American NLP researchers. Since there has been increasing participation from Europe, Asia, and Latin America, I would like to examine the possibility of having a mentoring service program for NAACL and defining its scope in a way that can make it useful to researchers. 

