---
layout: default
title: "2015 Summer School at JHU"
root: ../../../
---

h2. CALL FOR NAACL SCHOLARSHIP APPLICATIONS TO the 2015 Jelinek Summer School in Speech and Language Technology

Location: Dept. of Electrical Engineering
University of Washington
Seattle, WA 98195

Summer workshop website:
[http://www.clsp.jhu.edu/workshops/archive/ws15-summer-workshop/](http://www.clsp.jhu.edu/workshops/archive/ws15-summer-workshop/)

(The summer school occurs at the first two weeks of the summer workshop)

h3. Important Dates

table(table).
| Application Deadline | Wednesday, April 15, 2015 at 11:59pm PDT |
| Notification date | Wednesday, May 6, 2015 |
| Summer School | Monday, June 22 -- Thursday, July 2, 2015 |

h3. Call for Participation

The North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics (NAACL) is again offering an exciting summer school opportunity for a limited number of graduate and undergraduate students interested in the field of Human Language Technology.

The summer school will be held from Monday June 27 - Friday July 8, 2011, at The Center for Language and Speech Processing (CLSP) at Johns Hopkins University in conjunction with the pre-workshop classes of the CLSP 2011 Summer Workshop on Language Engineering. Selected students will attend two weeks of lectures and hands-on laboratories that will include general introductions to the major areas of study within the field of Human Language Technology (e.g. Natural Language Processing, Automatic Speech Recognition, Machine Translation, Information Retrieval) as well as sessions on specialized research topics of current interest in the field.

h3. Frequently-asked Questions (FAQ): 

*Q*: I am currently attending a university that is not in the Americas. Can I apply?
*A*: As stated above, no. Since this is a NAACL sponsored event, it is only available to undergraduate students enrolled or pre-enrolled in institutions located in the Americas. This includes North, Central, and South America as well as the Caribbean.

*Q*: I will be attending graduate school in the fall, but have not started yet. Am I eligible?
*A*: Yes.

*Q*: What about VISA issues?
*A*: If you are selected and are from a country that requires a VISA, we will work with you on necessary paperwork.

*Q*: Must all materials be submitted by the deadline, including the letters of recommendation?
*A*: Yes, the deadline applies to the entire application package.

*Q*: What does the scholarship include?
*A*: The scholarship is $2,000 per student; $1692 will be paid to the JHU summer school directly to cover registration, housing and meal plan at the University of Washington. The remaining $308 can be used to cover travel and other incidental costs such as air tickets between your location and the venue. The funds are limited and may not be able to cover all travel expenses.

*Q*: What application materials should I submit?
*A*: It includes the form below, 1–2 reference letters, and a short statement of interest.

*Q*: Where should I send application material?
*A*: Please email your application material to naacl.jhu.workshop@gmail.com. You can expect to receive a response verifying the receipt of your application within one business day.

*Q*: If I have any questions, who should I contact?
*A*: Please email us at naacl.jhu.workshop@gmail.com.

h3. NAACL Scholarship Application form for the 2015 JHU Summer School

Please send the following information to [naacl.jhu.workshop@gmail.com](mailto:naacl.jhu.workshop@gmail.com).

Application deadline: April 15, 2015 at 11:59pm PDT
(submissions prior to deadline appreciated!)

table(table).
| NAME |  |
| E-MAIL ADDRESS |  |
| SCHOOL |  | 
| MAJOR |  |
| EXPECTED GRADUATION DATE |  |
| GPA |  |
| ESTIMATED TRAVEL COST | $___ |

Please also include the following:

- A SHORT (less than one page) STATEMENT OF INTEREST.  The statement might describe your personal interests in the field of Human Language Technology, any relevant research or work experience in the area, career goals, relevant courses taken, etc.

- Please arrange for 1–2 REFERENCE LETTERS to be emailed to [naacl.jhu.workshop@gmail.com](mailto:naacl.jhu.workshop@gmail.com). The letters can be brief.
