---
layout: default
title: "NAACL Emerging Regions Funding"
root: ../../
---

At their June 2010 meeting, the NAACL Executive Board decided to merge two small funds programs created in 2009 (the Latin American Fund and the Regional Conferences Fund) to form the Emerging Regions Fund. This newly created fund is intended to assist the creation of a larger and more cohesive Computational Linguistics community in Latin America, and to enhance more regional interactions among students and researchers anywhere in the Americas. 

There will be two deadlines for proposals in the coming year, and approximately half of the funds will be awarded after each deadline. NAACL recognizes that each region has specific needs and concerns, and so we are open to a wide range of possible proposals, subject to the constraint that these awards are intended to support individuals, institutions, or events located in the Americas, and to support travel within the Americas. NAACL will not support travel to or from locations outside of the Americas, and in general travel should be limited to a specific region in the Americas. 

Examples of proposals that might help to build community could include financial support for regional conferences or workshops, or providing financial or material support for Natural Language Processing and Computational Linguistics classes at colleges and universities in Latin America. In addition, NAACL has a long tradition of supporting student participation in conferences, summer schools, and NLP/CL competitions, and would give high priority to such efforts in Latin America or at regional events in the Americas. Note that this fund is not intended to support student travel to the NAACL HLT conference, as there is a separate fund available for the purpose. 

Proposals will be evaluated by a committee consisting of members of the NAACL Executive Board. 

There is a Google Group related to NAACL activites in South America: "NAACL-Latin-America":https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/naacl-latin-america

h3. Call for Proposals

<p>
<ul>
    {% for year in (2013..2013) reversed %}
    <li><a href="{{ site.baseurl }}/calls/emerging_regions/{{ year }}/index.html">{{ year }} Emerging Regions CFP</a></li>
    {% endfor %}
</ul>
</p>


h2. Fondo para Regiones Emergentes de la NAACL 

En la junta de Junio 2010, la mesa directiva de la NAACL decidió combinar dos programas de pequeños fondos creados en 2009 (el Fondo Latinoamericano y el Fondo de Conferencias Regionales) para formar el Fondo para Regiones Emergentes. Este nuevo fondo tiene la intención de apoyar la creación de una comunidad de computación lingüística cohesiva en Latinoamérica, y fomentar más interacciones regionales entre estudiantes e investigadores en cualquier región de América.

Habrá dos fechas límite para recibir propuestas en el próximo año, y aproximadamente la mitad de los fondos será alocado en cada ciclo. La NAACL reconoce que cada región tiene necesidades específicas, así que estamos abiertos a una gran diversidad de posibles propuestas, sujetas a las restricciones de que los fondos tienen el propósito de apoyar individuos, instituciones, o eventos localizados en América, y apoyar viajes dentro del continente Americano. La NAACL no apoyará viajes hacia o desde lugares fuera del continente Americano, y en general, los viajes deberán ser restringidos a una región específica de América.

Ejemplos de propuestas que puedan ayudar a establecer una comunidad de investigación pueden incluir apoyo económico para conferencias o talleres regionales, o dar apoyo económico, o material, para ofrecer cursos de procesamiento de lenguaje natural (PLN) o computación lingüística (CL) en colegios o universidades en América Latina. Además, la NAACL tiene una larga tradición de dar apoyo a estudiantes para su participación en conferencias, escuelas de verano, y competencias de PLN/CL, y le dará mayor prioridad a esfuerzos de este tipo en América Latina, o en eventos regionales en el continente Americano. Cabe resaltar que este fondo no tiene la intención de apoyar estudiantes para que viajen a la conferencia de la NAACL HLT, dado que hay otros fondos disponibles para este propósito.

Las propuestas serán evaluadas por un comité formado por miembros de la mesa directiva de la NAACL. 

Hay un grupo en Google relacionado con actividades en América Latina: "NAACL-Latin-America":https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/naacl-latin-america

h3. Convocatoria de Propuestas

<p>
<ul>
    {% for year in (2013..2013) reversed %}
    <li><a href="{{ site.baseurl }}/calls/emerging_regions/{{ year }}/index.html">Convocatoria {{ year }} del Fondo para Regiones Emergentes</a></li>
    {% endfor %}
</ul>
</p>

bq. Thanks to Thamar Solorio for the Spanish translation.

h2. Fundo da NAACL para Regiões Emergentes

Em seu encontro em Junho de 2010, o conselho executivo da NAACL decidiu unir dois programas pequenos de financiamento criados em 2009 (o Fundo Latino-americano e o Fundo para Conferências Regionais) para formar o Fundo para Regiões Emergentes. Esse fundo recém-criado destina-se a apoiar a criação de uma comunidade de Linguística Computacional maior e mais coesa na América Latina e a aumentar as interações regionais entre estudantes e pesquisadores das Américas.

Haverá dois prazos para submissões de propostas no próximo ano e aproximadamente metade dos fundos será distribuída após cada prazo. A NAACL reconhece que cada região tem suas necessidades e preocupações específicas. Portanto, estamos abertos a uma grande variedade de propostas possíveis, sujeitas a restrição de que esse fundo destina-se a apoiar indivíduos, instituições ou eventos localizados nas Américas, assim como viagens nas Américas. A NAACL não apoiará viagens envolvendo regiões fora das Américas e, em geral, as viagens devem ser limitadas a regiões específicas das Américas.

Exemplos de propostas que podem ajudar a estabelecer comunidades de pesquisa podem incluir apoio financeiro para conferências ou workshops regionais, ou requisitar apoio financeiro ou material para cursos de Processamento de Linguagem Natural e Linguística Computacional em universidades na América Latina. Além disso, a NAACL tem uma longa tradição de apoiar a participação de estudantes em conferências, escolas de verão e competições da área, e daria grande prioridade a esse tipo de esforço na América Latina ou em eventos regionais nas Américas. Note que este fundo não se destina a apoiar viagens de estudantes a conferências da NAACL HLT, pois há outro fundo específico para este fim.

As propostas serão avaliadas por um comitê consistindo de membros do conselho executivo da NAACL.

Há um grupo do Google relacionado às atividades da NAACL na América do Sul: "NAACL-Latin-America":https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/naacl-latin-america

h3. Chamada de Propostas

<p>
<ul>
    {% for year in (2013..2013) reversed %}
    <li><a href="{{ site.baseurl }}/calls/emerging_regions/{{ year }}/index.html">Chamada de {{ year }} para Regiões Emergentes</a></li>
    {% endfor %}
</ul>
</p>

bq. Thanks to Thiago A. S. Pardo for the Brazilian Portuguese translation.

