---
layout: default
title: NAACL Conference Anti-Harassment Policy
root: ../
---

The open exchange of ideas and the freedom of thought and expression are central to the aims and goals of a NAACL conference. We are dedicated to providing a harassment-free conference experience for everyone. For these reasons, we have created an explicit anti-harassment policy for NAACL conferences.

Harassment and hostile behavior are unwelcome at any NAACL conference. This includes: speech or behavior that intimidates, creates discomfort, or interferes with a person's participation or opportunity for participation in the conference. We aim for NAACL conferences to be an environment where harassment in any form does not happen, including but not limited to: harassment based on race, gender, religion, age, color, national origin, ancestry, disability, sexual orientation, or gender identity. Harassment includes degrading verbal comments, deliberate intimidation, stalking, harassing photography or recording, inappropriate physical contact, and unwelcome sexual attention.

If you are a victim of harassment or hostile behavior at a NAACL conference, or otherwise witness harassment or hostile behavior, please contact any current member of the "NAACL Board":http://naacl.org/officers/index.html or contact Priscilla Rasmussen, who is usually available at the registration desk of the conference. Please be assured that if you approach us, your concerns will be kept in strict confidence, and we will consult with you on the actions taken by the Board.

h3. Implementation

* This policy should be posted prominently on all conference and workshop webpages. The board ensures compliance.

* The policy should be announced at the beginning of the conference. There should be at least one man and one woman on the list of people who can be contacted in case of suspected violations.

* In case of a complaint, if the behavior warrants, the contacted conference/workshop representatives will have a conversation with the accused offender to apprise him/her of the gravity of the complaint, without presupposition of guilt. Priscilla Rasmussen will be informed of the incident so that a private record can be maintained for future conferences and workshops.

* In the complaint is deemed serious enough, or if there are repeated offenses by the same individual, the situation should be dealt with on a case-by-case basis, taking care to ensure that the accused offender can defend himself or herself.

* The complainant should always be told what the outcome of their complaint is.

bq. This policy is a heavily modified version of the "SIGPLAN Conference Anti-Harassment Policy":http://www.sigplan.org/Resources/Policies/Anti-harassment

