---
layout: default
title: NAACL Policy on Best Paper Awards
root: ../
---

h3. Guidelines for committee membership:

The best paper committee should contain four to six experts from
the NLP community. No two should represent the same subfield of
NLP, defined broadly by "area chair"-like categories.  All should be
known in the community, but preferably represent different parts of
the NAACL membership, for instance: academia, industry, government.
The committee will be selected by the program chairs in consultation
with the general chair, and may include area chairs but need not.

h3. Guidelines for paper selection:

The best paper committee will select best papers for the conference.
The precise number and names of these are specified elsewhere; these
guidelines discuss what "best" means. When making selections, the committee
should keep in mind that there are many ways for a paper to strongly
contribute to the body of knowledge in our field.  Examples are:

  * Provide new algorithms, corpora, or technology
  * Introduce a new insight into language or people
  * Facilitate reproducibility via code, infrastructure, or data
  * Provide new evaluation methods and standards

The papers selected by the committee should be good for different
reasons. A paper need not be "flawless” in order to be “best"; being
"interesting” and/or introducing a new idea or methodology to the
community can be more important. The committee must write one
or two sentences stating why each paper has been selected, for the
program chairs to use during their announcement of the best paper
awardees.
